ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
These pheasants were hard won today.
We will roast them later
and give the men a proper taste of meat.
Let me handle that.
Last time you didn't pluck them clean.
The men complained it tasted terrible.
-You tend the fire. I will do it.
-All right.
You cannot just throw pheasants
in hot water.
Rinse them in cold water first
to tighten the skin.
Then scald them in boiling water
for half an incense stick.
That way, the feathers come off clean.
You are quite the cook for a young lady.
How about this?
Join our fire unit. Cannot promise riches,
but if we have meat to eat,
you will have your share too.
Thank you, sir, but I cannot.
My husband is injured.
He needs looking after.
Once he is well, I will come help out.
All right, all right.
Good.
Mrs. Fan.
Mr. Sun… No.
Strategist.
Do you need something?
Yes. I have good news.
All right. Come. Sit.
Thank you.
The soldiers have set up
a new tent over there.
Yan Zheng has been moved.
-Really?
-It is quieter there.
You can brew his medicine in peace.
That is wonderful.
But there are so many wounded.
Why move only him?
Well…
You played a key part
in the flood stratagem.
You even risked your life
to find your husband.
When Marquis Wu'an heard,
he ordered this as a reward for him.
Only words of praise?
Nothing more tangible?
There is.
For you.
That is hardly enough to share.
That is not all.
Everyone in the Pig-Slaughter Squad
receives a reward.
For… everyone?
So much.
That is wonderful.
A noble lord like the Marquis,
yet he keeps common folk like us in mind.
When Yan Zheng recovers,
we will go thank him in person.
That will not be necessary.
I'll pass along your gratitude
to His Lordship.
I will take my leave.
I must get the money back from Xie Zheng.
-One!
-Kill!
-Two!
-One!
-Kill!
-Two!
This is a new powder I made.
It works wonders for healing wounds
and helps to regenerate tissues.
WOUND SALVE
I heard you tasted hundreds of herbs
before finding one that was safe.
On behalf of the soldiers, I thank you.
It's my duty as Imperial Physician.
There is something I must ask you.
Why did you lie to Fan Changyu?
She may be commonly born,
but I cannot bear to see
such a good woman be wronged.
Other than concealing
my title as Marquis Wu'an,
I have not deceived her in the slightest.
You would do well
to tend to your own affairs.
Mine are none of your concern.
Marquis Wu'an is worlds apart…
Marquis Wu'an?
-You were speaking of the Marquis?
-Changyu.
What is this about rank
being worlds apart?
What happened?
Tell me.
Is there some vast difference in status
between Yan Zheng and the Marquis?
Well…
He was teaching Marquis Wu'an
how to hide private savings.
Private savings?
Even the Marquis hides money?
Just like Mr. Zhao.
So you had better
keep a tight rein on Yan Zheng.
If the Marchioness finds out,
he will be in deep trouble.
Honestly.
You can barely lie straight,
and yet you give the Marquis
advice like that.
All right. I will leave you two
to your sweet talk.
I'll go brew medicine.
The fire unit caught a few pheasants.
I bought one for you.
You need proper nourishment.
Here.
It smells good.
Just lacking a touch of salt.
Might taste a bit gamey.
I can manage.
Look.
What is this?
The Marquis heard
about us intercepting the scouts at Baxia.
He rewarded me and the squad.
I have money now. I can provide for you.
Good.
Tell me something.
When you climbed the mountain,
did it never cross your mind
that you might not make it back down?
The Marquis is formidable.
He would never let us die trapped here.
And if the rebels really break through,
I can still get you out.
If that day comes,
just think of saving yourself.
Why bring me along?
Why not?
I said I would provide for you.
I meant it.
When you left Lin'an, I struck you.
I said hurtful things.
Every time I think of it, I feel awful.
Ashamed.
So,
you only came here
because of guilt?
No. That's not it.
I…
Not just guilt.
You probably didn't know.
On the road here, I nearly lost my life.
When Lin'an was massacred,
that brute came seeking revenge.
I almost fell off a cliff.
If not for a kind old lady,
I would have died.
I am not afraid of death.
I was afraid Changning
would lose her sister.
I was afraid I would never see you again.
I missed you.
I was terrified you were dead.
Do not die.
Come home with me. All right?
All right.
I slept so long.
Wake me up next time.
Sleep if you are tired.
What is it?
Nothing.
I just remembered
when I dragged you home from the snow.
You were far worse than this.
Your whole face
was caked in blood.
I couldn't even tell what you looked like.
Here.
Now I have nursed you back again.
Does it still hurt?
With you here,
not so much.
Your hand.
Changyu.
You kissed me.
I…
I just…
We are even now.
I will come see you in the morning.
Rest well.
Look at that shine.
Feels heavy too, Cang.
That Marquis Wu'an sure is generous.
Here.
-Yuanbao.
Did you find Changyu?
I did.
Good.
She found her live-in husband too.
She did?
Look at all this silver.
Changyu is happy.
That makes me happy too.
Happy. Very happy.
I say our luck is finally turning.
How so?
Look. Changyu found her man.
We got reward money.
More of Lin'an's folks are still alive.
-There is a phrase for that. What is it?
-What phrase?
-The one where everyone ends up well.
-Everyone ends up well?
Best of both worlds.
That's it.
-Yuanbao truly has learning.
-So refined.
I couldn't even think of it.
-As expected of Yuanbao.
-No wonder
-you get things done.
-Quiet down!
People are trying to sleep.
You… You lot again?
You again?
Come back here.
Get over here.
Come on. Drink.
Come on. Bottoms up.
Drink.
Changyu.
Changyu, I am cold.
Here.
Tuck yourself in.
His wounds are so severe.
How can he return to the battlefield?
I am freezing.
Might as well go sleep with Zheng.
XIE
Strategist!
Her High…
The Imperial Physician…
-What happened?
-Come with me.
Your Highness!
Jianjia, this prescription works well
for internal injuries.
Distribute it to the other physicians
at once.
Tell them to start brewing.
Why are you here?
You wore yourself down
just to prepare these medicines?
I tested them myself.
The herbs are harmless.
They can be found anywhere.
You…
You tasted them yourself?
Her Highness has sampled
countless herbs already.
She can barely taste anymore.
There's no salt in camp anyway.
Perhaps that is a blessing.
Saves me from tasting anything foul.
The medicine is ready. Go, Jianjia.
You are the Grand Princess.
Of the highest rank.
How can you act
with such disregard for yourself?
Right now, I am an imperial physician.
I came to this army to save lives.
Fine. Even if you are a physician,
these herbs are unverified.
What if they were poisonous?
-They could have killed you.
-And if they had?
I told you.
Do not treat me as a Grand Princess.
You are not at the academy now.
In what position do you question me?
Did you not once teach at the academy,
"A ruler must bear the duty
to shelter his people?"
A ruler must bear the duty
to shelter his people.
The sovereign of a nation
must shoulder the heavy burden
of protecting all under Heaven.
That is the way between
the emperor and ministers.
You are the Grand Princess,
born to privilege,
as a delicate lady,
yet you push yourself so harshly.
It is precisely because
I bear the title of Grand Princess,
because I enjoy the blessings
of the people,
that I am all the more bound
to protect them.
Is that not so?
In that case,
if their pain can be eased,
then this battle
still holds a chance of victory.
Your Highness,
it is time for your medicine.
What is this?
She has been tasting herbs every day.
Some may carry poison.
This is the antidote decoction
she prepared in advance.
Let me.
So you are not entirely foolish.
At least you thought
to prepare an antidote.
Here.
Who are you calling foolish?
Me.
Here.
All right, me.
Slowly.
That wretched girl who delivered the grain
is the one His Highness
ordered us to capture alive.
And she is no ordinary woman.
She killed three of our scouts
and even stabbed His Highness once.
Cold-hearted. Bold beyond reason.
Had I ambushed the supply unit myself,
I wouldn't have let
such a chance at merit slip away.
Shi Hu, remember this.
As long as His Highness
remains in their hands,
we do nothing rash.
Then how long do we endure?
Prince Changxin waits for us
to join him at Lucheng.
We will not endure forever.
But to deal with Marquis Wu'an,
we must use strategy.
A frontal assault will cost too much.
Better to break them from all sides.
Let despair seep into their camp.
When their morale falters, we strike.
-But His Highness's safety--
-We wait until Marquis lowers his guard.
Only then can we seize the heir back.
XIE
Hurry up. Move it.
Why are we assembling this early?
Do you smell that?
Roasted meat.
Smells incredible.
Give me a piece.
It smells so good.
I have not tasted meat in ages.
Roast meat? Where? Find it.
-Where?
-Over there.
WOUND SALVE
Xie…
Yan Zheng.
Come in. No one else is here.
Good news.
You had the men below the mountain
scrape turf and dig up roots.
The rebels took the bait.
They truly believe
we are out of provisions.
Now they are on the east and south sides,
roasting mutton,
trying to shake our morale.
Shi Yue actually thought of that trick.
He has a brain, I'll grant him that.
They underestimate us.
Every son of Yanzhou has spine.
Even if we had nothing left
but bark and roots,
we would never surrender
to such crude theatrics.
A brain, perhaps. Not much of one.
Exactly.
Proceed as planned.
Yes.
-What is that smell?
-Yeah. What is that smell?
Where is that coming from?
The smell of that roast meat is torture.
Hurry.
Sir.
Do you know where
the lightly wounded camp went?
The rebels are roasting sheep below.
The whole camp is on alert.
The lightly wounded…
must have been urgently summoned.
He has gone back out?
His wounds have not even healed.
Sir.
Do you know where they were sent?
-I do not.
-Asking about military secrets
can cost you your head.
I am only worried
about Yan Zheng's injury.
Your live-in husband is capable.
Skilled and sharp. He will be fine.
No matter how capable he is,
he is still a foot soldier.
He must charge at the front.
Even Marquis Wu'an charges first
to protect the rest.
Then I can only hope
the Marquis protects him as well.
Changyu!
-Ning.
-What's wrong?
The cave…
In the cave…
What happened in the cave? Slowly.
That bad man.
I saw him get captured.
They locked him inside the cave.
Please watch her for me.
Ning, who is this bad man?
What did he do?
I saw him in Xigu Alley, killing people.
High-security prisoner inside.
No one enters without leave.
I just want to know one thing.
Is the beast in there Sui Yuanqing?
Is that Mrs. Fan I hear?
So you came after all.
Seems Heaven truly bound
our fates together.
-Come to rekindle old feelings?
-I will butcher you right now!
Orders are iron. Do not invite trouble.
To hell with your iron orders.
My mother is dead.
Why does he get to live?
Hold!
Mrs. Fan, I know why you are here.
But the prisoner inside
holds the balance of this war.
He is a dangerous but necessary piece.
He cannot die yet.
I only want to ask him one thing.
Why did he slaughter Lin'an?
Those innocent townsfolk…
What wrong had they done?
Then step inside.
Come in, and I will tell you.
-I will kill you.
-Fine!
You alone may enter.
Hand me the blade.
-Open the gate.
-Yes.
The blood is still fresh,
yet we meet again.
Mrs. Fan,
I think of you every day.
How about you? Do you ever think of me?
I think of you
dying a miserable death.
Why did you massacre Lin'an?
Why?
Because I felt like it.
Xie Zheng wanted to shield Lin'an.
I would not let him have his way.
If you were from Lin'an,
you were meant to die.
So you did it just to spite him?
You spared no one,
not even women and children.
They were but ants.
So angry.
Shall I continue?
That little sister of yours…
That
sickly little wretch.
I tied her to my horse as I rode.
She could not bear the jolting.
Vomited the whole way.
Nearly drowned her in the river too.
The look on her face
was priceless.
And that constable of yours.
Stubborn to the end.
Still died under my blade.
Then the magistrate's daughter.
She refused to tell me where you were.
I did not hesitate. One thrust.
Blood sprayed three feet high.
Mrs. Fan! Steady yourself!
Come on. Do it.
Kill me!
Mrs. Fan!
-Smells amazing.
-Almost ready.
Marquis, urgent news.
Mrs. Fan has taken Sui Yuanqing.
If you have the guts,
give me a clean death.
One stroke!
You are not worth that mercy.
You lot think you can avenge Lin'an?
You are nothing but useless trash.
Say one more word and I will cut you down!
-Orders from the Marquis. Don't interfere.
-Untie me!
Tighter.
That will do.
Rebel scum!
Open your eyes and look well.
Your precious heir
is in my hands!
Shi Yue.
It is His Highness. Do we rescue him?
That is…
Mrs. Fan.
Preposterous.
Has Xie Zheng already
seen through my scheme?
Shi Yue, shall we lead troops
up the mountain now
and seize His Highness back?
No.
Be careful of Xie Zheng's trap.
I will take a detachment up
from the western path.
You remain here and keep up the feint.
Sound the horn.
Sound the horn!
What, afraid now?
If you are scared, lower me down.
When my army storms this mountain,
I might even grant you a whole corpse.
Look.
Shi Yue moved first.
Why only a small detachment?
What is he playing at?
The north backs into the mountain.
Three sides open to the plains.
The west is clearly upwind.
Yet he orders meat roasted
only on the south and east.
He is trying to stir unrest in our ranks.
And he has another move waiting.
Lure the tiger from its lair.
He wants us walking
straight into his trap.
Not without brains.
So you are the precious heir?
That was for my grandma.
Lowborn trash.
You dare--
If not for you, you little cur,
my mother would not be bedridden.
You frightened her into paralysis.
I was going to return in glory,
stay by her side,
see her through her final days.
Are you done yet?
My little sister is crippled now.
She should have had a better life ahead.
Because of you,
half her future is gone.
-So we're not done here!
-Enough!
What did we Lin'an folk ever do?
You would not even
leave us the right to live.
Pigs want to live too.
What good does that do?
They are slaughtered for meat.
You lot
are worth less than pigs.
You are begging to die.
Let me.
Mrs. Fan's little show
has Shi Yue rattled.
Even his finest tricks won't come to hand.
Reckless, but it hit the mark.
Shi Yue is cautious by nature.
Seeing this, he will keep
the main army steady
and lead a smaller force himself,
looking for a chance to save Sui Yuanqing.
Go on.
Hit me.
I like it when you hit me.
Hit you?
That was too light.
Gag him.
Let me.
I have not bathed in five days anyway.
Might be a bit pungent. Hold him still.
Do not move. Stay still.
Rebel scum!
If you want your heir alive,
bring meat and grain to trade!
They cannot hear me.
-If you want your heir alive,
-bring meat and grain to trade!
I pride myself on reading people,
but your wife…
I truly cannot figure her out.
Xie Wu. Xie Qi.
Stay with me.
Xie Jiu.
Go with Strategist and reinforce them.
Yes.
Ignoring us? I will thrash you to death.
That is all you have?
You have been collecting debts for years.
Have you not learned something nastier?
Something that truly humiliates?
Yuanbao.
I recall you telling us
that if someone refuses to pay…
-Hang them out to dry!
Deal with him.
Belt. Take it off.
-Do him.
-Come on. Let's have a look.
Move him over. Come on.
Ready?
One, two, three.
Look carefully!
If you do not bring salt and meat,
we will strip your heir bare!
A man may die, but not be humiliated!
I'm stripping him!
This is Marquis Wu'an's bait.
Wait.
Wait a little longer.
If you do not bring salt and meat,
we will strip your heir bare!
I mean it. I'm stripping him!
If you do not bring it,
your heir won't have an heir
to pass it on to!
Stop!
We will do as you say.
General!
Reporting to the General.
General Shi Yue
orders the meat and grain sent up.
Humiliating.
Do as ordered!
Do not hurt His Highness!
Put everything into the baskets.
Do not try anything.
Move!
A whole basket filled!
Here. Over here.
Do not bother with me!
Xie Zheng is not here!
Kill these lowborn wretches!
His Highness commands it.
Kill!
Attack!
Good!
-We have food!
-We have food, folks!
-Good!
-We did it!
‎-Great!
‎-Well done!
We are back!
We did it!
Look!
-Look!
-Thirty roasted lambs,
50 dan of grain, 50 jin of salt,
and three barrels of oil.
Send everything to the fire unit.
Let the men eat well tonight!
Good!
-Fan is formidable!
-Extra rations!
Extra rations! Extra rations!
Extra rations!
OIL
We pulled off another big one.
Do you think we'll get rewarded again?
I only ask one thing of Marquis Wu'an.
When we drive the enemy back,
hand Sui Yuanqing over to us.
Let us decide how he dies.
Good.
Yes, we will all ask together.
Together.
General Xie Wu.
Sui Yuanqing bought us quite a feast.
Where is Yan Zheng?
There is lamb. It will help him recover.
Mrs. Fan, the Marquis wishes to see you.
So soon?
What, another reward?
Hand over your weapons first.
Why?
No weapons inside the tent.
Here.
What is going on? Where is Yan Zheng?
You will see him
after meeting the Marquis.
Come.
Marquis, Fan Changyu
and her men have arrived.
Commoner Fan Changyu greets Marquis Wu'an.
We greet the Marquis.
Fan Changyu.
You acted without orders.
That warrants severe punishment
by military law.
Acted… without orders.
Marquis, though we moved on our own,
we rendered merit.
Please judge fairly.
When you stand within the army,
you have to abide by its laws.
If I excuse you today
for acting without orders,
greater trouble will follow tomorrow.
All right. Then punish me alone.
They followed because of me.
No one forced us. We chose to go.
If there is punishment, we share it.
-Yes.
-That's right.
Marquis, we earned military merit.
Fan Changyu sought the meat
to strengthen the wounded.
We ask you to see clearly.
Please judge fairly.
Marquis.
I humbly request that.
Fan Changyu is my wife.
if punishment is due,
I will bear it with her.
Why are you here? You are injured.
Do not speak recklessly.
Article 27 of the Military Code.
Acting without orders.
-What is the prescribed penalty?
-Thirty strokes.
In light of Fan Changyu's merit
in breaching the dam,
her delivery of grain,
and this being her first offense,
reduce it to 20 strokes,
as warning to others.
Marquis, grant me leave
to accept the punishment
in her stead.
No! Absolutely not!
Marquis, I take responsibility
for what I did.
-Punish me alone.
-Marquis, I beg you.
I…
Marquis, I was wrong.
My husband knew nothing of this.
Punish only me.
Then… what would you have me do?
Your Lordship knows
orders are iron.
Defying them merits death.
Your Lordship must be fair
in reward and punishment.
Issue the order.
Punish me alone.
Marquis, punish me!
-Marquis, punish us together!
-Yes!
-Together!
We accept it together!
Orders are iron. This is not a game.
Marquis.
Give the order.
This is not how we agreed it would go.
-Guards!
-Here.
Punish Yan Zheng alone.
Yes.
-No!
-Carry it out!
Marquis, my husband truly knew nothing!
-Marquis!
-Stand back!
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS FILM
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang